What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

a repository to track future changes is created. .git file is created.
We need to create a repository to reflect all the changes in the future.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

staging area is before committing. Working directory is the directory which contains the files we're trying to make changes and commit to the repository.

staging area offers us the flexibility to use a single commit to use on more than one files.
How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

We can add multiple files to the staging area. The files that cantains the changes logically inter-related should be added to the staging area.
Then using git commit we add a message and add the files in the staging area to the repository.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
When I want to create a new version of the game introducing a new logical change based on previous
version but want to keep the main file intact. The branches would let me give more flexibility to experiment on the coding
while I can still change the main code on a separate branch.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

The diagrams clearly explains how git uses the branch structure. A branch can be unreachable from another branch and that makes it 
possible for multiple people to work on the same code to improve different features.
What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
Merging incorporates changes in both the branches into one branch .
The diagram helps us understand the reach and linkability of each commit and lets us understand clearly.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually? 
Automatic merging is useful when there is no conflict between two to-be merged parts.
But when there is a conflict between merged parts auto merge can create weird problems that will
be very difficult to understand later. Here manual commit helps.